---
title: 'Oxford Machine Learning Summer School: MLx Finance & NLP (08.07.2023-11.07.2023 online)'
date: 2014-08-14
permalink: /posts/2023/07/oxford/
tags:
  - natural language processing
  - summer school
  - online
---
Summer school review. 

This [summer school](https://www.oxfordml.school) features an intensive program of 12 lectures spread over 4 days. The advantages include gaining comprehensive insights into the contemporary applications of machine learning in mathematical finance and natural language processing, as well as the opportunity to network with diverse experts in the field. However, the main drawback lies in the limited time available and the participants' varying academic backgrounds, resulting in some speakers only providing high-level explanations of their research topics, often overlapping with similar lectures.
Nonetheless, certain talks offer vivid examples of how modern machine learning transforms classical mathematical finance, showcasing its unprecedented capabilities. Interestingly, many presented researches employ machine learning models such as recurrent neural networks (RNN), long short time memory (LSTM), and generative adversarial networks (GAN), while the machine learning community has since replaced these with newer and more advanced models like transformer networks and diffusion models. It raises curiosity whether further improvements in machine learning could significantly impact mathematical finance research.
One notable concern was the first day's internet connection issues, posing difficulties for online participants. Despite this, the organization remained professional and seamless. The establishment of a Slack channel for participants and speakers proved to be a valuable platform for Q&A sessions and networking opportunities.

Topics
======
* Generative Market Simulators
* Financial Time Series
* Factor Investing (Feature Learning)
* Robustness & Truthfulness of NLP models
* Automated Trading
* Quantum NLP

Rating
======
- Theory: ★★☆☆☆
- Practice: ★★☆☆☆
- Interaction: ★★★☆☆
- Logistics: ★★☆☆☆
